.TH SKYLDAV 1 "April 9th, 2016" "version 0.6" "Skyld AV overview"
.SH NAME
skyldav \- Skyld AV on access virus scanner
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B skyldav
.RB [ \-c
.IR configfile ]
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-m
.IR msglvl ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Skyld AV provides on access virus scanning for Linux.
.PP
Running the program requires the CAP_SYS_ADMIN capability.
.PP
The fanotify API is used to control file access. This requires a kernel compiled with

.in +4n
.sf
 CONFIG_FANOTIFY=y
 CONFIG_FANOTIFY_ACCESS_PERMISSIONS=y
.fi
.in

Kernel version 3.8.0 or newer is recommended.
.TP
.BI \-c \ configfile
Specify the path to the configuration file.
.TP
.B \-d
Daemonize; run the progam as a background program.
.TP
.B \-h
Print usage information.
.TP
.BI \-m \ msglvl
Set message level
.br
.B 1
- Debug
.br
.B 2
- Information, default
.br
.B 3
- Warning
.br
.B 4
- Error
.TP
.B \-v
Print the program version and licensing information.
.SH AUTHOR
Heinrich Schuchardt <xypron.glpk@gmx.de>
.SH FILES
The location of the configuration file defaults to
.IR /etc/skyldav.conf .
The file allows to set the following options:
.TP
.B CACHE_MAX_SIZE
Maximum number of entries in the cache for scanned files.
.TP
.B CLEAN_CACHE_ON_UPDATE
Clean cache when the virus scanner receives a new pattern file (yes/no).
Defaults to
.IR yes .
.TP
.B EXCLUDE_PATH
Directories that shall not be scanned (including subdirectories).
.TP
.B NOMARK_FS
File systems that shall not be marked for virus scan.
.TP
.B NOMARK_MNT
Mounts that shall not be marked for virus scan.
.TP
.B THREADS
Number of threads for file scanning, defaults to the number of available CPUs.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR skyldavnotify (2)
.PP
Further documentation and examples can be found in the documentation
path, which defaults to
.IR /usr/share/doc/skyldav .
